Detective Recapped here. Today, I'm going
to explain a Crime-Mystery film called:
"Wild Things.” Filled to the brim with deception
and betrayal, this film proves that people
don't always turn out to be who they say they
are. Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
For the charming guidance counselor, Sam
Lombardo, carnal abuse is something the
seniors of Blue Bay High School should
know about. To educate the students,
Sam invites Detectives Ray Duquette and Gloria
Perez to give a lecture about the matter.
As Ray introduces himself and his partner,
one of the students, Suzie Toller,
shows hostility toward him and rudely walks out
of the auditorium. After the lecture, Sam and the
detectives see Suzie immediately walk away as soon
she spots them. Ray informs Gloria that he busted
Suzie the previous year for possession, while
Sam adds that she spent six months in Camp Nine.
Although Suzie's reaction is understandable,
it's a wonder why she's too nasty towards Ray,
considering the fact that she's the one in the
wrong. Suzie must've felt that she was wrongfully
jailed, or maybe, there's more to the story of her
arrest than the detective lets on. At the school
entrance, Sam thanks the detectives for coming
to their school, and as they get to their car,
Gloria notes how Ray doesn't seem to like Sam.
Ray implies that Sam has a thing for school girls,
and Gloria teases him that she won’t mind sleeping
with the guidance counselor. Before the lecture,
most of the girl students aren't embarrassed to
show their interest in Sam. It is clear enough
that Sam is popular among them, which explains
Ray's coldness towards him. It's not that Ray
is jealous, but he thinks Sam is a womanizer who
would even prey on his students—a possible threat.
One day, Kelly Van Ryan approaches Sam
after he's gone sailing with his student,
Jimmy. Obviously flirting, Kelly asks the guidance
counselor if she and her friend can wash his Jeep
for the senior car wash, and Sam says they can.
She then asks Sam if he can give her a ride home,
saying her mother was supposed to
pick her up but didn't show up. Here,
Kelly shows that she isn't afraid to go after what
she wants, which is Sam. She doesn't even mind
teasing him in front of another student, proving
that she pays no mind to what others think.
Sam seems reluctant to do it, so he offers Jimmy
a ride, too. They then see Suzie trying to fix
her car on their way out of the campus, and
Sam asks if she needs a lift home. However,
Kelly pisses Suzie off by insulting the way she's
dressed, and once her car is fixed, Suzie flips
them off. With Kelly getting dropped off, her mom,
Sandra, comes out of the balcony wearing a bikini.
To Kelly's irritation, Sandra asks Sam if he'd
like to have a drink with her inside, but Sam
politely refuses and quickly drives away. Sandra's
way of talking to Sam indicates they used to be
romantically involved, and Kelly doesn't even
bother hiding her annoyance. She's probably irate
that she has to compete with her mother for Sam's
attention, but Sam isn't even interested in them.
On Sunday, Kelly gets to washing Sam’s jeep. She
then enters the house without Sam's permission,
and as she stands there and drips water on
the floor, she looks at Sam salaciously.
Later on, Kelly comes out of the house looking
upset with her hair and clothes disheveled.
When Kelly comes out of the house, it's hard
to determine if something really happened to
her because there's no proof or witness. Her
earlier behavior, her dishevelled appearance,
and the upset look on her face are
telling completely different things.
The next day, as Sandra spends the day in bed
with Frankie, she receives a call from Kelly's
school informing her that her daughter was absent.
She quickly asks Sam if he's heard from Kelly,
but Sam doesn't know where she is. As they talk,
Sandra hears her daughter outside, skeet-shooting,
so she tells Sam she's already found her. She then
tells him that it was nice seeing him the other
day, but Sam isn't in the mood for her games and
just ends the call. When Sandra asks her daughter
why she skipped school, Kelly starts crying and
says she misses her dad. Though Sandra sympathizes
with her daughter, all she could tell her is that
she isn’t sure why her father killed himself.
As Kelly continues to cry, she confesses
that Sam Lombardo violated her. Of course,
it’s only natural that Sandra will quickly
believe anything Kelly says. Though they don’t
always see things eye-to-eye, Sandra is still
a mother who is protective of her daughter.
But things aren’t quite adding up, and if only
Sandra had spent more time with her daughter
and less time with her lover, then maybe she
would see right away if Kelly’s lying or not.
Wasting no time, Sandra contacts Ray and Gloria,
informing them of what happened to her daughter.
As Gloria records her statement, Kelly starts
recounting the events at Sam's house. According
to her, Sam started rubbing her shoulders,
and she let him because he was a nice guy.
The next thing she knew, Sam's hand was already
in her shorts from behind. Despite her protests,
Sam had her hands pinned behind her and repeatedly
urged her to just let it happen. When Sam suddenly
stopped, he insulted her by saying no little
girl could ever make him finish. Once Ray,
Gloria, and Bryce Hunter are done watching Kelly's
recorded confession, Gloria deduces that nothing
happened between Sam and Kelly. Gloria believes
Kelly was just acting because she was disappointed
that Sam didn't come on to her when she wanted
him to. Gloria then suggests they make Kelly take
a polygraph test, but Ray opposes, saying that her
lawyer, Tom Baxter, will cut her down. Gloria gets
mad that Ray won't back her up, and as they argue,
Bryce tells them to start with the investigation.
It's difficult to explain how Gloria immediately
concluded that Kelly was lying. It may come from
her experience as a detective to quickly tell
if a person is telling the truth or not. But
since they lack any physical evidence, Gloria is
right to call for a lie detector test for Kelly.
However, they live in a place where even the
authorities are afraid of powerful and wealthy
people like Sandra Van Ryan and Tom Baxter.
Unfortunately for them, Kelly is a Van Ryan.
After learning about Kelly's accusations and
that Sandra is pushing for his suspension,
Sam gets mad and asks Artie why the board would
decide without hearing his side first. Feeling
sorry for him, Artie tells him to just wait until
his name is cleared, but Sam won't hear him out.
Sam believes that no one ever gets cleared from an
accusation like that, adding that it will follow
him wherever he goes. Artie then advises him to
hire a lawyer, but he isn't sure where to find one
who would agree to go up against the Van Ryans in
court. Another proof that money can buy anything,
Sandra uses her influence to convince the board
to suspend Sam without going through due process.
Artie, who has a position in school,
can't even do anything about it,
which is even more upsetting because he
knows what they're doing to Sam isn't fair.
After some time, Sam hires Ken Bowden to defend
him against the Van Ryans. When Sam insists that
he's just Kelly’s guidance counselor and nothing
more, Bowden assures him he's got nothing to worry
about. Even though most people are afraid to
go up against someone more powerful than them,
there are still few who are willing to do what's
right, and one of them is Ken Bowden. Bowden isn't
scared to face the Van Ryans in court, but
instead, he considers it to be a challenge.
That night, Sam goes to a local bar to
drink before going home. As he drives,
he notices a vehicle following him. It bumps
into his Jeep until he goes over the swamp.
Bleeding, Sam manages to get out of his Jeep.
But the driver, who turns out to be Frankie,
punches him and starts beating him up. The next
day, Bowden goes to Sam's house and gets startled
when Sam comes out with a gun pointed at him.
Sam quickly apologizes and invites Bowden inside
the house, where he informs him that Frankie Condo
attacked him and was driving Sandra's Range Rover.
Bowden wants him to go to the cops
and make a statement, but Sam refuses,
saying he doesn't need any more trouble from
Sandra. Confident that they'll win against the
Van Ryans, Bowden brings up the time when Kelly
ran away from home and stayed in a motel to get
high after her father killed himself. Bowden then
says the authorities haven't taken his statement
yet because they're still looking for dirt,
which they won't find. When Bowden looks at
Sam and asks for confirmation, Sam simply
says he doesn't sleep with his students.
Once again, Sam's beating proves that
Sandra can do whatever she wants with him.
She can even have Sam killed if she wants to,
but of course, she'd rather see her daughter's
violator suffer first. And while Sam’s punishment
is already preceding the verdict, Bowden isn’t
averse to playing dirty himself, which is
clear when he mentioned Kelly’s breakdown.
One day, Ray and Gloria visit Suzie and her
grandmother, Ruby, since Suzie called them. After
finding out that Sam isn’t arrested yet, Suzie
admits that Sam forced himself on her about a year
ago in her trailer. As the detectives question
her, Suzie starts getting upset and aggressive,
but she still manages to tell them that once
Sam stopped, he said that no little girl could
make him finish. With her statement matching
Kelly’s, Sam is immediately arrested. Though
Sam vehemently insists that he’s innocent, Bowden
only tells him that he’s preaching to the choir.
Things are definitely looking bleak for Sam. With
another victim coming forward and unknowingly
corroborating Kelly’s story by repeating what
she said, there’s little room for doubt with
his crime. Though it’s easy to fault Suzie for
not coming forward earlier, these things are
difficult to report. It’s just easier for people
like Kelly, who’s already rich and powerful.
Before the trial, Sandra and Baxter tell the
press that they're confident Sam will get what
he deserves. However, Suzie breaks under Bowden's
questioning and admits to court that Sam didn't
really defile her. She says she was just pissed
at him for not bailing her out of jail when she
was arrested for narcotics possession,
leaving everyone in court in disbelief.
As she continues to confess, Suzie also tells
the court that Sam didn't sleep with Kelly,
either. Kelly’s just in love with him and wants
to get back at him for sleeping with Sandra.
Humiliated and enraged, Kelly gets
up and throws a glass at Suzie,
but she’s immediately taken away before she could
cause more damage. After the fiasco at court,
Bowden celebrates as he plans to
file a lawsuit against Sandra.
A case of jealousy and betrayal, Suzie and
Kelly are desperate girls who are willing to
ruin a man's life just to avenge their wounded
egos. The girls are lucky the judge doesn't
punish them for committing perjury, but Bowden
isn't the type to let that kind of scheme slide.
It is only fair that Sam demands compensation
for what he went through because after all,
the money he'll get won't even be enough to pay
for the damages the girls have done to his life.
After Bowden set up a meeting with Baxter and
Sandra, Sam finally gets his settlement pay,
and Bowden tells him to enjoy the money. Later
that day, Sam goes back to school to retrieve his
belongings. As he is about to leave, Sam bumps
into Kelly, who is infuriated that Sandra is
using her trust fund to pay Sam. Kelly attacks
Sam in front of everyone, repeatedly hitting
him with a book while screaming about how much
she hates him. Once Kelly is taken away, Sam
tells Artie that he couldn't come back to school
even though he wanted to. Kelly's outburst only
proves how bitter she is, and she doesn't even
hesitate to make a scene in front of everyone.
It is a pity that Sam won't be able to go back to
his work. This only proves that he was right when
he said that being accused of committing carnal
abuse isn't something that would just go away.
That night, Sam goes to a hotel after losing
his house, where he finds Kelly waiting for him.
It is then revealed that it's their plan to get
money from Sandra all along. When Suzie comes out,
too, she asks how much is $8.5 million divided
among them. After some celebrating, he reminds
them that the three of them can't ever be seen in
one place before they start to make out and sleep
together. This just proves that people aren't
always what they appear to be. Sam Lombardo,
a respected guidance counselor, turns out to be a
manipulative schemer. At this point, it shows that
he's the mastermind of getting money from Sandra,
and Kelly and Suzie are clearly under his spell.
At the station, Ray tells Gloria that he believes
Sam has hatched the elaborate plan of taking money
from Sandra using Kelly and Suzie. He then starts
following Sam, determined to prove that his theory
is correct. Ray has never liked Sam, but the
former guidance counselor has never hurt anyone,
so he can only despise him from a distance.
One day, Ray approaches Kelly as she finishes
swimming to ask what she, Suzie, and Sam
plan to do with the money. Playing innocent,
Kelly pretends to be clueless, but Ray doesn’t buy
it. He says the truth will eventually come out,
and it's Suzie who will eventually ruin them. Ray
visits Suzie next and apologizes for what happened
to her friend, Davy. He then gives Suzie a piece
of paper that shows Sam's recent bank activities,
revealing that he has just transferred the
settlement money to an offshore account. Ray
also adds that Sam has just put a downpayment on
island property and a lease-to-buy on a sailboat.
When he points out that Suzie is into sailing,
Suzie plays dumb and asks why he's telling her
all that. Angry, Ray snaps at her and asks if
she actually expects Kelly and Sam to share
the money with her. Wanting to be left alone,
Suzie tries to walk out, but Ray catches her
by the arm and warns her to keep a close eye
on Kelly and Sam. A smart move on Ray's part,
he tries to turn Kelly and Suzie against
each other. Seeing that Suzie is high-strung,
Ray plays his card right by making Suzie doubt
her accomplices. And during their confrontation,
it is also revealed that Suzie's anger towards
Ray roots from something he did to her friend,
Davy. While the two don't go into details about
it, it is clear that Suzie is deeply hurt by it.
Upset, Suzie calls Sam once Ray is gone but
fails to reach him. She then goes to Kelly's
house to tell her what happened, clueless that
Ray is following her. Kelly gets mad that Suzie
contacted Sam, and as they talk, she receives
a call from the former guidance counselor.
Sam asks Kelly if Suzie is with her, and when
Kelly confirms it, Sam instructs her to calm her
friend down. He then says he'll handle everything
before asking Kelly to get Suzie so they can both
listen to what he has to say. Meanwhile, Ray stays
hidden as he records a video of Kelly and Suzie.
Sam tells them to watch out for Ray before
reminding Suzie not to fall apart. When the
call ends, Suzie accuses Kelly of double-crossing
her, but Kelly denies it then insults her. Even
more upset, Suzie slaps Kelly for trying to
touch her. Taken aback, Kelly slaps Suzie, too,
before grabbing her by the hair and dragging her
to the pool. There, Kelly tries to drown Suzie,
but Suzie manages to break free from her. As
she swims towards the stairs, Kelly grabs her by
the leg and realizes that Suzie really is scared.
Eventually calming down, the girls start kissing,
and as they make out, Ray continues to record
them. In spite of the scheming they took part in,
Kelly and Suzie are just volatile young girls.
Sam must have realized this, and this makes
them easy pickings for exploitation. On one
hand, you have Kelly, who’s still hung up on
her father’s death while not receiving enough
attention from her mother. Then there’s Suzie,
who’s clearly a troubled girl with her own string
of problems, financial and otherwise. Being the
guidance counsellor, you’d think that Sam would
do his job and actually give them guidance and
counsel, but instead, he fools around with
both their bodies and Kelly’s trust fund.
The next day, Ray shows the
footage to his colleagues,
but Bryce isn't happy that Ray went to the
Van Ryans' property without authorization.
And unfortunately, the audio from the recording
is unintelligible, so they can’t hear the girls
talking about Sam. Though Bryce warns about Sandra
suing for invasion of privacy, Ray is unmoved and
reveals that he brought Sam in for questioning.
Sam is furious, and he threatens to sue them
next time Ray drags him to the station. When he’s
free to go, Sam insults Ray then takes his leave.
After some time, Kelly takes a drunken
Suzie by the beach, where Sam is waiting
for them. He tells Suzie that he wants them to
celebrate one last time before they split up,
and she agrees. However, when Sam orders
Kelly to get a blanket from her mom's car,
he repeatedly attacks Suzie with
a bottle of champagne. After that,
Sam and Kelly wrap Suzie's body in plastic before
loading her to the back of the Range Rover.
Sam then casually wipes the blood off his face
before going to the swamp to dispose of Suzie's
body. Kelly is visibly shaken after hearing
Suzie's screams, but it is unclear if she's
aware of Sam's plan to kill the girl right
from the beginning. Maybe she thought they
were really just going to celebrate by the beach,
or maybe, she deliberately lured Suzie there so
Sam could take her out of the equation. After all,
Suzie's death means more money for Kelly and Sam.
And since Suzie’s the weakest link, having
her gone would make them feel safer.
Ray and Gloria then investigate Suzie’s
disappearance. Ray asserts that Kelly and
Sam are responsible for it then asks Gloria to
check on Suzie's car for him. Meanwhile, Ray
goes to the beach with Jimmy, where the boy shows
him the spot where he and Suzie used to hang out.
As he investigates the place, Ray finds traces
of blood on an old boat and teeth in the dirt.
Ray then calls his colleagues and the forensic
team to show them where Suzie was killed.
Since there's no body, Ray believes that Sam has
dumped Suzie in the swamp. After learning that
Suzie's car has been found at the bus terminal,
Ray insists that Sam is behind everything and that
Kelly will be next. However, Bryce tells Ray to
get off the case and warns him not to go near Sam.
But as soon as he's out of earshot, Ray asks
Gloria to keep an eye on Sam, and in exchange,
he will drop the investigation if the teeth
are not Suzie’s. Although Ray won't show it,
he must be thrilled that he'll finally be able
to nail Sam. Suzie doesn't mean a thing to him
anyway, and her disappearance just gives Ray a
chance to go after the former guidance counselor.
Ray is so confident that Sam is the culprit
that he isn't even looking for other suspects.
However, Gloria doesn't feel the same way
and thinks her partner is mistaken about Sam.
Gloria does as she's told and watches Sam, while
on the other hand, Sam receives a call from Kelly.
The girl is panicking, but Sam assures her that
they’ll be fine as long as they stick to their
plan. He then reminds Kelly to stay at the guest
house, before going outside to talk to Gloria.
After informing him that Suzie’s missing,
she asks him where he was the previous night.
Ray smoothly evades the question then invites
Gloria to his room. There, he gives her Kelly’s
file which shows her history of violence. Kelly
has once threatened the lives of Sandra and Suzie,
and as Sam tells Gloria more about Kelly's anger
issues, he implies that Kelly might be responsible
for Suzie's disappearance. Trying to seduce
Gloria, Sam claims that he didn't tell them about
it during the trial because he had principles
back then, but not anymore. He then tells Gloria
to leave, and Gloria calls Ray to tell him
she's going home and that Sam is gone. Pissed,
Ray informs her that the blood found on the scene
matches Suzie's. To this, Gloria just tells him
that if Suzie really is dead, then Bryce might
be on the right track about Kelly. Unfortunately,
the keen eye and sharp wit that Gloria had when
calling crap on Kelly’s victim statement is now
nowhere to be found. Perhaps Suzie had it with
her when she was killed. To be more accurate,
though, Gloria just finds him hot. With how
Sandra and Sam have been finessing everyone,
it just goes to show that the strongest forces
in the world are big dollar bills and attractive,
scheming men. But the third strongest force
happens to be the ego of a detective with a hunch,
so it’s anyone’s guess as to
what will win out in the end.
Worried about Kelly, Ray goes to the Van Ryans'
residence to look for her. When Ray enters the
house, he is greeted by an agitated Kelly,
who wants to know why he's there. The two
then engage in a struggle, and after three shots
are fired, Ray comes out of the house, injured.
Seeing the officer on the ground, Sandra rushes
inside and screams upon finding Kelly's body.
At the station, Ray recounts how Kelly
attacked and shot him in the shoulder,
and he claims that he had no choice
but to return fire. Because of this,
Ray is eventually fired from the force for
insubordination. After finding Suzie's blood
in Sandra's Range Rover, the police department
concludes that Suzie was murdered by Kelly.
After Suzie's disappearance and Kelly's death,
it is later revealed that Sam and Ray have been
working together all along. Although Sam is upset
that Ray killed Kelly, he agrees with his partner
when he says that they don’t have any more loose
ends. Since the bank will take two more days to
complete the money transfer, Ray decides to stay.
When you open up a Russian matryoshka doll, you’ll
find a smaller doll inside it, and when you open
that smaller doll, you’ll just find another one
inside it, too. That’s what the tale of Ray and
Sam is. Just when the story thread is unknotted,
a new twist shows up. Later on, the two are
sailing when Sam suddenly attacks Ray. As Ray
leans over the railing, Sam suddenly steers the
wheel, causing Ray to fall overboard. However,
Ray manages to hold on to the boat, and he
attacks Sam, who pretends to be clueless.
As the men fight each other, Suzie suddenly
appears. She’s actually alive, and she’s sporting
a new hairdo. With a speargun, the girl quickly
shoots Ray in the leg. Ray asks for Sam's help,
but Sam ignores him, saying he shouldn't have
killed Kelly and Suzie's friend, Davy. Suzie
then shoots him again, and Ray goes overboard once
more. Suzie and Sam then watch Ray as he bleeds,
struggling to stay afloat. At this point, it would
just be easier to assume that the entire town is
in on Sam’s scheme. The man is a masterclass in
deception, and Suzie is unbelievable herself.
After all, the girl had her death faked
just to have a bigger share in the millions.
Sometime later on, Gloria visits Ruby to talk
about Ray. Ruby informs her that Ray used to
have a relationship with one of the girls over
at the glades, and Davy had a crush on her.
One time, Davy caught Ray beating the girl, so Ray
killed him. Suzie, however, witnessed everything,
so Ray busted Suzie and sent her to jail
for six months just to prove that he could.
She then reveals to Gloria that Ray got Sandra's
mom pregnant with Suzie, making Sandra and Suzie
half-sisters. When Sandra's mom died, Ruby
took in Suzie and raised her like her own
granddaughter. Before Gloria leaves, she sees
Ruby's son, Walter, tending to Suzie's boat.
Gloria is surprised that Suzie can sail, and
Walter tells her that Suzie's IQ is above 200.
Another unexpected revelation is that Suzie
is actually Kelly's half-aunt. Gloria, who's
been partners with Ray for quite some time now,
clearly doesn't know that he's a dirty detective.
He's been abusing his power ever since, and
he's had no problems covering up his deeds.
Meanwhile, Suzie, who's been portrayed
as a teen with no future at all,
is actually a genius. Unfortunately, she's forced
to use her wits to do bad things just to survive.
Back at the boat, Suzie poisons Sam and knocks
him overboard. It is then revealed that Suzie
is the one who hatched the plan of getting
money from Sandra. Initially, she blackmailed
Sam by showing him his pictures with Kelly in
bed. She's also the one who instructed Sam to
befriend Ray and involve him in her scheme, and
later on, she forced Sam to pull out two of her
teeth. However, Sam couldn't do it, so she did
it herself. It is also revealed that Ray killed
Kelly and planted the gun in her hand before
shooting himself to make it look like a struggle.
After some time, Bowden meets with Suzie and
gives her the money they got from Sandra.
He informs her that he's already set aside
the money for Ruby and Walter, and of course,
his fee. As Suzie walks away with the
cash, Bowden reminds her to be good.
Suzie must've waited long to get her scheme
into motion because what she did required
insane patience and elaborate planning. To
say that Suzie is smart is an understatement,
for she has successfully eliminated
everyone in her path to get the money.
She is also cunning enough to cover her tracks,
making sure that nothing goes back to her.
For the final twist in this story, Bowden's
involvement in Suzie's plans shows that one
can easily get what they want, if
they just know which side to take.